.\"
.\" GLE Tubing & Extrusions Library Documentation 
.\"
.TH gleExtrusion 3GLE "3.6" "GLE" "GLE"
.SH NAME
gleExtrusion - Extrude arbitrary 2D contour along arbitrary 3D path.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void gleExtrusion (int ncp,
                gleDouble contour[][2],
                gleDouble cont_normal[][2],
                gleDouble up[3],
                int npoints,
                gleDouble point_array[][3],
                float color_array[][3]);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIncp\fP 1i
number of contour points
.IP \fIcontour\fP 1i
2D contour
.IP \fIcont_normal\fP 1i
2D contour normals
.IP \fIup\fP 1i
up vector for contour
.IP \fInpoints\fP 1i
numpoints in poly-line
.IP \fIpoint_array\fP 1i
polyline vertices
.IP \fIcolor_array\fP 1i
colors at polyline verts
.SH DESCRIPTION

Extrude arbitrary 2D contour along arbitrary 3D path. The argument
"contour" specifies the 2D contour to be extruded, while the argument
"point_array" specifies the path along which to extrude.  The vector
"up" defines the orientation of the contour y-axis in real 3D space.

Note that neither the very first segment, nor the very last segment are
drawn. The first and last segments serve only to define the angle of
the join at the very ends of the polyline. Thus, to draw one segment,
three must be specified. To draw two segments, four must be specified,
etc.

The normal array may be NULL. If it is, normal vectors will NOT be
automatically generated, and the object will look terrible when lit.

The color array may be NULL. If NULL, the current color is used. If not
NULL, the glColor3f() routine is used to set the color; therefore,
specifying the glColorMaterial() subroutine before this primitive can
be used to set diffuse, specular, ambient, etc. colors.

.SH SEE ALSO
gleTwistExtrusion, gleSuperExtrusion
.SH AUTHOR
Linas Vepstas (linas@fc.net)
