.\"
.\" GLE Tubing & Extrusions Library Documentation 
.\"
.TH gleTwistExtrusion 3GLE "3.6" "GLE" "GLE"
.SH NAME
gleTwistExtrusion - Extrude arbitrary 2D contour along arbitrary 3D path, specifying local rotations (twists).
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void gleTwistExtrusion (int ncp,
                gleDouble contour[][2],
                gleDouble cont_normal[][2],
                gleDouble up[3],
                int npoints,
                gleDouble point_array[][3],
                float color_array[][3],
                gleDouble twist_array[]);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIncp\fP 1i
number of contour points
.IP \fIcontour\fP 1i
2D contour
.IP \fIcont_normal\fP 1i
2D contour normals
.IP \fIup\fP 1i
up vector for contour
.IP \fInpoints\fP 1i
numpoints in poly-line
.IP \fIpoint_array\fP 1i
polyline vertices
.IP \fIcolor_array\fP 1i
colors at polyline verts
.IP \fItwist_array\fP 1i
contour twists (in degrees)
.SH DESCRIPTION

Extrude arbitrary 2D contour along arbitrary 3D path, specifying local
rotations (twists). As the contour is extruded, it will be twisted by
the amount specified in the array "twist_array". The angles are
measured in degrees, and the rotation is about the origin of the
contour coordinate system.

The argument "contour" specifies the 2D contour to be extruded, while
the argument "point_array" specifies the path along which to extrude.
The vector "up" defines the orientation of the contour y-axis in real
3D space.

Note that neither the very first segment, nor the very last segment are
drawn. The first and last segments serve only to define the angle of
the join at the very ends of the polyline. Thus, to draw one segment,
three must be specified. To draw two segments, four must be specified,
etc.

The normal array may be NULL. If it is, normal vectors will NOT be
automatically generated, and the object will look terrible when lit.

The color array may be NULL. If NULL, the current color is used. If not
NULL, the glColor3f() routine is used to set the color; therefore,
specifying the glColorMaterial() subroutine before this primitive can
be used to set diffuse, specular, ambient, etc. colors.

.SH SEE ALSO
gleExtrusion, gleSuperExtrusion
.SH AUTHOR
Linas Vepstas (linas@fc.net)
