.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\"
.TH glutMenuStatusFunc 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutMenuStatusFunc - sets the global menu status callback. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutMenuStatusFunc(void (*func)(int status, int x, int y));
void glutMenuStateFunc(void (*func)(int status));
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfunc\fP 1i
The new menu status (or state) callback function.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutMenuStatusFunc sets the global menu status callback so a GLUT
program can determine when a menu is in use or not. When a menu
status callback is registered, it will be called with the value
GLUT_MENU_IN_USE for its value parameter when pop-up menus are
in use by the user; and the callback will be called with the value
GLUT_MENU_NOT_IN_USE for its status parameter when pop-up
menus are no longer in use. The x and y parameters indicate the location
in window coordinates of the button press that caused the menu to go
into use, or the location where the menu was released (may be outside the
window). The func parameter names the callback function. Other
callbacks continue to operate (except mouse motion callbacks) when
pop-up menus are in use so the menu status callback allows a program to
suspend animation or other tasks when menus are in use. The cascading
and unmapping of sub-menus from an initial pop-up menu does not
generate menu status callbacks. There is a single menu status callback for
GLUT. 

When the menu status callback is called, the current menu will be set to
the initial pop-up menu in both the GLUT_MENU_IN_USE and
GLUT_MENU_NOT_IN_USE cases. The current window will be set to the
window from which the initial menu was popped up from, also in both
cases. 

Passing NULL to glutMenuStatusFunc disables the generation of the
menu status callback. 

glutMenuStateFunc is a deprecated version of the
glutMenuStatusFunc routine. The only difference is
glutMenuStateFunc callback prototype does not deliver the two
additional x and y coordinates. 
.SH SEE ALSO
glutCreateMenu, glutCreateWindow
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
