.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996, 1998.
.\"
.TH glutGameModeGet 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutGameModeGet - retrieves GLUT device information represented by integers. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
int glutGameModeGet(GLenum info);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIinfo\fP 1i
Name of game mode information to retrieve.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_GAME_MODE_ACTIVE 
Non-zero if GLUT's game mode is active; zero if not active.
Game mode is not active initially.  Game mode becomes active when
glutEnterGameMode is called.  Game mode becomes inactive when
glutLeaveGameMode is called.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_GAME_MODE_POSSIBLE
Non-zero if the game mode string last specified to glutGameModeString is
a possible game mode configuration; zero otherwise.  Being "possible"
does not guarantee that if game mode is entered with glutEnterGameMode
that the display settings will actually changed.  GLUT_GAME_MODE_DISPLAY_CHANGED should be called once game mode is entered to determine if the display mode is actually changed.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_GAME_MODE_WIDTH
Width in pixels of the screen when game mode is activated.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_GAME_MODE_HEIGHT
Height in pixels of the screen when game mode is activated.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_GAME_MODE_PIXEL_DEPTH 
Pixel depth of the screen when game mode is activiated.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_GAME_MODE_REFRESH_RATE 
Screen refresh rate in cyles per second (hertz) when game mode is activated.
Zero is returned if the refresh rate is unknown or cannot be queried.
.TP 8
.B GLUT_GAME_MODE_DISPLAY_CHANGED 
Non-zero if entering game mode actually changed the display settings.
If the game mode string is not possible or the display mode could not be
changed for any other reason, zero is returned.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutGameModeGet retrieves GLUT game mode information represented by integers. The info
parameter determines what type of game mode information to return. Requesting game mode 
information for an invalid GLUT game mode information name returns negative one.
.SH SEE ALSO
glutGet, glutDeviceGet, glutLayerGet, glutGameModeString, glutEnterGameMode, glutLeaveGameMode
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
