.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\"
.TH glutSetCursor 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutSetCursor - changes the cursor image of the current window. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutSetCursor(int cursor);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcursor\fP 1i
Name of cursor image to change to.  Possible values follow:
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_RIGHT_ARROW
Arrow pointing up and to the right. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_LEFT_ARROW
Arrow pointing up and to the left. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_INFO 
Pointing hand. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_DESTROY
Skull & cross bones. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_HELP
Question mark. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_CYCLE
Arrows rotating in a circle. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_SPRAY
Spray can. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_WAIT
Wrist watch. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_TEXT
Insertion point cursor for text. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_CROSSHAIR
Simple cross-hair. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_UP_DOWN 
Bi-directional pointing up & down. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_LEFT_RIGHT
Bi-directional pointing left & right. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_TOP_SIDE
Arrow pointing to top side. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_BOTTOM_SIDE
Arrow pointing to bottom side. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_LEFT_SIDE
Arrow pointing to left side. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_RIGHT_SIDE
Arrow pointing to right side. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_TOP_LEFT_CORNER
Arrow pointing to top-left corner. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_TOP_RIGHT_CORNER
Arrow pointing to top-right corner. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_BOTTOM_RIGHT_CORNER
Arrow pointing to bottom-left corner. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_BOTTOM_LEFT_CORNER
Arrow pointing to bottom-right corner. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_FULL_CROSSHAIR
Full-screen cross-hair cursor (if possible, otherwise
GLUT_CURSOR_CROSSHAIR). 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_NONE
Invisible cursor. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_CURSOR_INHERIT
Use parent's cursor. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutSetCursor changes the cursor image of the current window.
Each call requests the window system change the cursor appropriately.
The cursor image when a window is created is
GLUT_CURSOR_INHERIT. The exact cursor images used are
implementation dependent. The intent is for the image to convey the
meaning of the cursor name. For a top-level window,
GLUT_CURSOR_INHERIT uses the default window system cursor. 
.SH X IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
GLUT for X uses SGI's _SGI_CROSSHAIR_CURSOR convention to
access a full-screen cross-hair cursor if possible.
.SH SEE ALSO
glutCreateWindow, glutCreateSubWindow
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
