.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\"
.TH glutDialsFunc 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutDialsFunc - sets the dial & button box dials callback for the current window. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutDialsFunc(void (*func)(int dial, int value));
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfunc\fP 1i
The new dials callback function. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutDialsFunc sets the dial & button box dials callback for the
current window. The dial & button box dials callback for a window is
called when the window has dial & button box input focus (normally,
when the mouse is in the window) and the user generates dial & button
box dial changes. The dial parameter will be the dial number (starting
at one). The number of available dial & button box dials can be
determined with glutDeviceGet(GLUT_NUM_DIALS). The value
measures the absolute rotation in degrees. Dial values do not ``roll over''
with each complete rotation but continue to accumulate degrees (until the
int dial value overflows). 

Registering a dial & button box dials callback when a dial & button box
device is not available is ineffectual and not an error. In this case, no dial
& button box dials callbacks will be generated. 

Passing NULL to glutDialsFunc disables the generation of dial &
button box dials callbacks. When a new window is created, no dial &
button box dials callback is initially registered. 
.SH SEE ALSO
glutButtonBoxFunc, glutDeviceGet
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
