.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1998.
.\"
.TH glutKeyboardUpFunc 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutKeyboardUpFunc - sets the keyboard up (key release) callback for the current window. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutKeyboardUpFunc(void (*func)(unsigned char key,
                      int x, int y));
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfunc\fP 1i
The new keyboard up callback function. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutKeyboardFunc sets the keyboard up (key release) callback for the current window.
When a user types into the window, each key release matching an ASCII
character will generate a keyboard up callback. The key callback parameter
is the generated ASCII character. The state of modifier keys such as Shift
cannot be determined directly; their only effect will be on the returned
ASCII data. The x and y callback parameters indicate the mouse location
in window relative coordinates when the key was pressed. When a new
window is created, no keyboard callback is initially registered, and ASCII
key strokes in the window are ignored. Passing NULL to
glutKeyboardFunc disables the generation of keyboard callbacks. 

During a keyboard up callback, glutGetModifiers may be called to
determine the state of modifier keys when the keystroke generating the
callback occurred. 

To avoid the reporting of key release/press pairs due to auto
repeat, use glutIgnoreKeyRepeat to ignore auto repeated keystrokes.

There is no guarantee that the keyboard press callback will match
the exact ASCII character as the keyboard up callback.  For example,
the key down may be for a lowercase b, but the key release may
report an uppercase B if the shift state has changed.  The same
applies to symbols and control characters.  The precise behavior
is window system dependent.

Use glutSpecialUpFunc for a means to detect non-ASCII key
releases.
.SH SEE ALSO
glutKeyboardFunc, glutSpecialUpFunc, glutSpecialFunc, glutCreateWindow, glutMouseFunc, glutSpaceballButtonFunc, glutButtonBoxFunc, glutTabletButtonFunc, glutGetModifiers, glutIgnoreKeyRepeat
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
