.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\"
.TH glutSpecialUpFunc 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutSpecialUpFunc - sets the special keyboard up (key release) callback for the current window. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutSpecialUpFunc(void (*func)(int key, int x, int y));
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfunc\fP 1i
The new special callback function. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutSpecialUpFunc sets the special keyboard up (key release) callback for the current
window. The special keyboard up callback is triggered when keyboard
function or directional keys are released. The key callback parameter is a
GLUT_KEY_* constant for the special key pressed. The x and y callback
parameters indicate the mouse in window relative coordinates when the
key was pressed. When a new window is created, no special up callback is
initially registered and special key releases in the window are ignored.
Passing NULL to glutSpecialUpFunc disables the generation of special up
callbacks. 

During a special up callback, glutGetModifiers may be called to
determine the state of modifier keys when the key release generating the
callback occurred. 

To avoid the reporting of key release/press pairs due to auto
repeat, use glutIgnoreKeyRepeat to ignore auto repeated keystrokes.

An implementation should do its best to provide ways to generate all the
GLUT_KEY_* special keys. The available GLUT_KEY_* values are: 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F1 
F1 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F2 
F2 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F3 
F3 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F4 
F4 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F5 
F5 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F6 
F6 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F7 
F7 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F8 
F8 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F9 
F9 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F10 
F10 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F11 
F11 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_F12 
F12 function key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_LEFT 
Left directional key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_UP 
Up directional key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_RIGHT 
Right directional key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_DOWN 
Down directional key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_PAGE_UP 
Page up directional key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_PAGE_DOWN 
Page down directional key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_HOME 
Home directional key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_END 
End directional key. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_KEY_INSERT 
Inset directional key. 
.LP
Note that the escape, backspace, and delete keys are generated as an ASCII
character. 
.SH SEE ALSO
glutSpecialFunc,
glutKeyboardFunc, glutKeyboardUpFunc, glutMouseFunc, glutSpaceballButtonFunc, glutButtonBoxFunc, glutTabletButtonFunc, glutGetModifiers, glutIgnoreKeyRepeat
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
