.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\"
.TH glutTabletButtonFunc 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutTabletButtonFunc - sets the special keyboard callback for the current window. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutTabletButtonFunc(void (*func)(int button, int state,
                          int x, int y));
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfunc\fP 1i
The new tablet button callback function. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutTabletButtonFunc sets the tablet button callback for the current
window. The tablet button callback for a window is called when the
window has tablet input focus (normally, when the mouse is in the
window) and the user generates tablet button presses. The button
parameter will be the button number (starting at one). The number of
available tablet buttons can be determined with
glutDeviceGet(GLUT_NUM_TABLET_BUTTONS). The state is
either GLUT_UP or GLUT_DOWN indicating whether the callback was due
to a release or press respectively. The x and y callback parameters
indicate the window relative coordinates when the tablet button state
changed. 

Registering a tablet button callback when a tablet device is not available
is ineffectual and not an error. In this case, no tablet button callbacks will
be generated. 

Passing NULL to glutTabletButtonFunc disables the generation of
tablet button callbacks. When a new window is created, no tablet button
callback is initially registered. 
.SH SEE ALSO
glutTabletMotionFunc, glutDeviceGet, glutMotionFunc, glutSpaceballMotionFunc
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
