.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\"
.TH glutCreateSubWindow 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutCreateSubWindow - creates a subwindow. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
int glutCreateSubWindow(int win,
	int x, int y, int width, int height);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwin\fP 1i
Identifier of the subwindow's parent window. 
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
Window X location in pixels relative to parent window's origin. 
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Window Y location in pixels relative to parent window's origin. 
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
Width in pixels. 
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Height in pixels. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutCreateSubWindow creates a subwindow of the window identified
by win of size width and height at location x and y within the current
window. Implicitly, the current window is set to the newly created
subwindow. 

Each created window has a unique associated OpenGL context. State
changes to a window's associated OpenGL context can be done
immediately after the window is created. 

The display state of a window is initially for the window to be shown.
But the window's display state is not actually acted upon until
glutMainLoop is entered. This means until glutMainLoop is called,
rendering to a created window is ineffective. Subwindows can not be
iconified. 

Subwindows can be nested arbitrarily deep. 

The value returned is a unique small integer identifier for the window.
The range of allocated identifiers starts at one. 
.SH SEE ALSO
glutCreateWindow, glutDestroyWindow
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
