.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\"
.TH glutKeyboardFunc 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutKeyboardFunc - sets the keyboard callback for the current window. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutKeyboardFunc(void (*func)(unsigned char key,
                      int x, int y));
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfunc\fP 1i
The new keyboard callback function. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutKeyboardFunc sets the keyboard callback for the current window.
When a user types into the window, each key press generating an ASCII
character will generate a keyboard callback. The key callback parameter
is the generated ASCII character. The state of modifier keys such as Shift
cannot be determined directly; their only effect will be on the returned
ASCII data. The x and y callback parameters indicate the mouse location
in window relative coordinates when the key was pressed. When a new
window is created, no keyboard callback is initially registered, and ASCII
key strokes in the window are ignored. Passing NULL to
glutKeyboardFunc disables the generation of keyboard callbacks. 

During a keyboard callback, glutGetModifiers may be called to
determine the state of modifier keys when the keystroke generating the
callback occurred. 

Use glutSpecialFunc for a means to detect non-ASCII key
strokes.
.SH SEE ALSO
glutKeyboardUpFunc,
glutSpecialFunc, glutCreateWindow, glutMouseFunc, glutSpaceballButtonFunc, glutButtonBoxFunc, glutTabletButtonFunc, glutGetModifiers
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
