.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\"
.TH glutGet 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutGet - retrieves simple GLUT state represented by integers. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
int glutGet(GLenum state);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIstate\fP 1i
Name of state to retrieve. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_X 
X location in pixels (relative to the screen origin) of the current
window. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_Y 
Y location in pixels (relative to the screen origin) of the current
window. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_WIDTH 
Width in pixels of the current window. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_HEIGHT 
Height in pixels of the current window. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_BUFFER_SIZE 
Total number of bits for current layer of current window's color buffer. For an
RGBA window, this is the sum of GLUT_WINDOW_RED_SIZE,
GLUT_WINDOW_GREEN_SIZE, GLUT_WINDOW_BLUE_SIZE, and
GLUT_WINDOW_ALPHA_SIZE. For color index windows, this is
the size of the color indexes. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_STENCIL_SIZE 
Number of bits in the current layer of current window's stencil buffer. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_DEPTH_SIZE 
Number of bits in the current layer of current window's depth buffer. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_RED_SIZE 
Number of bits of red stored the current layer of current window's color buffer.
Zero if the current layer of the current window is color index. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_GREEN_SIZE 
Number of bits of green stored the current layer of current window's color buffer.
Zero if the current layer of the current window is color index. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_BLUE_SIZE 
Number of bits of blue stored the current layer of current window's color buffer.
Zero if the current layer of the current window is color index. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_ALPHA_SIZE 
Number of bits of alpha stored the current layer of current window's color buffer.
Zero if the current layer of the current window is color index. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_ACCUM_RED_SIZE 
Number of bits of red stored in the current layer of current window's accumulation
buffer. Zero if the current layer of the current window is color index. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_ACCUM_GREEN_SIZE 
Number of bits of green stored in the current layer of current window's
accumulation buffer. Zero if the current layer of the current window is color index. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_ACCUM_BLUE_SIZE 
Number of bits of blue stored in the current layer of current window's
accumulation buffer. Zero if the current layer of the current window is color index. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_ACCUM_ALPHA_SIZE 
Number of bits of alpha stored in the current layer of current window's
accumulation buffer. Zero if the current layer of the current window is color index. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_DOUBLEBUFFER 
One if the current layer of the current window is double buffered, zero otherwise. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_RGBA 
One if the current layer of the current window is RGBA mode, zero otherwise (i.e.,
color index). 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_PARENT 
The window number of the current window's parent; zero if the
window is a top-level window. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_NUM_CHILDREN 
The number of subwindows the current window has (not counting
children of children). 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_COLORMAP_SIZE 
Size of current layer of current window's color index colormap; zero for RGBA
color model layers. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_NUM_SAMPLES 
Number of samples for multisampling for the current layer of the current window. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_STEREO 
One if the current layer of the current window is stereo, zero otherwise. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_CURSOR 
Current cursor for the current window. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_SCREEN_WIDTH 
Width of the screen in pixels. Zero indicates the width is unknown
or not available. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_SCREEN_HEIGHT 
Height of the screen in pixels. Zero indicates the height is
unknown or not available. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_SCREEN_WIDTH_MM 
Width of the screen in millimeters. Zero indicates the width is
unknown or not available. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_SCREEN_HEIGHT_MM 
Height of the screen in millimeters. Zero indicates the height is
unknown or not available. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_MENU_NUM_ITEMS 
Number of menu items in the current menu. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_DISPLAY_MODE_POSSIBLE 
Whether the current display mode is supported or not. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_INIT_DISPLAY_MODE 
The initial display mode bit mask. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_X 
The X value of the initial window position. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_Y 
The Y value of the initial window position. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_WIDTH 
The width value of the initial window size. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_HEIGHT 
The height value of the initial window size. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_ELAPSED_TIME 
Number of milliseconds since glutInit called (or first call to
glutGet(GLUT_ELAPSED_TIME)). 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_WINDOW_FORMAT_ID
The window system dependent format ID for the current layer of the
current window.  On X11 GLUT implementations, this is the X visual ID.
On Win32 GLUT implementations, this is the Win32 Pixel Format
Descriptor number.  This value is returned for debugging, benchmarking,
and testing ease.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutGet retrieves simple GLUT state represented by integers. The
state parameter determines what type of state to return.  Where appropriate, window
capability state is returned for the layer in use. GLUT state names
beginning with GLUT_WINDOW_ return state for the current window.
GLUT state names beginning with GLUT_MENU_ return state for the
current menu. Other GLUT state names return global state. Requesting
state for an invalid GLUT state name returns negative one. 
.SH SEE ALSO
glutDeviceGet, glutLayerGet, glutGetColor, glutGetWindow, glutGetMenu, glutGetModifiers, glutExtensionSupported
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
