.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\"
.TH glutExtensionSupported 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutExtensionSupported - helps to easily determine whether a
given OpenGL extension is supported. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
int glutExtensionSupported(char *extension);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIextension\fP 1i
Name of OpenGL extension.
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutExtensionSupported helps to easily determine whether a
given OpenGL extension is supported or not. The extension
parameter names the extension to query. The supported extensions can
also be determined with glGetString(GL_EXTENSIONS), but
glutExtensionSupported does the correct parsing of the returned
string. 

glutExtensionSupported returns non-zero if the extension is
supported, zero if not supported. 

There must be a valid current window to call
glutExtensionSupported. 

glutExtensionSupported only returns information about OpenGL
extensions only. This means window system dependent extensions (for
example, GLX extensions) are not reported by
glutExtensionSupported. 
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example of using glutExtensionSupported:
.nf
.LP
  if (!glutExtensionSupported("GL_EXT_texture")) {
    fprintf(stderr, "Missing the texture extension!\\n");
    exit(1);
  }

.fi
Notice that the name argument includes both the GL prefix and the
extension family prefix (EXT).
.SH SEE ALSO
glutGet, glGetString
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
