.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1998.
.\"
.TH glutForceJoystickFunc 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutForceJoystickFunc - forces current window's joystick callback to be called.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutForceJoystickFunc(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
glutForceJoystickFunc forces the current window's joystick callback to be
called, reporting the latest joystick state.

The joystick callback is called either due to polling of the joystick
at the uniform timer interval set by glutJoystickFunc's
pollInterval (specified in milliseconds) or 
in response to calling glutForceJoystickFunc.  If the pollInterval is
non-positive, no joystick polling is performed and the GLUT application
must frequently (usually from an idle callback) call glutForceJoystickFunc.

The joystick callback will be called once (if one exists)
for each time glutForceJoystickFunc is called.  The callback is called
from glutJoystickFunc.  That is, when glutJoystickFunc returns, the
callback will have already happened.
.SH GLUT IMPLEMENTATION NOTES FOR X11
The GLUT 3.7 implementation of GLUT for X11 supports the joystick API, but
not actual joystick input.  A future implementation of GLUT for X11 may
add joystick support.
.SH GLUT IMPLEMENTATION NOTES FOR WIN32
The GLUT 3.7 implementation of GLUT for Win32 supports the joystick API
and joystick input, but does so through the dated joySetCapture and
joyGetPosEx Win32 Multimedia API.  The GLUT 3.7 joystick support for
Win32 has all the limitations of the Win32 Multimedia API joystick support.
A future implementation of GLUT for Win32 may use DirectInput.
.SH SEE ALSO
glutJoystickFunc
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
