.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mark J. Kilgard, 1996.
.\"
.TH glutStrokeCharacter 3GLUT "3.7" "GLUT" "GLUT"
.SH NAME
glutStrokeCharacter - renders a stroke character using OpenGL. 
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
void glutStrokeCharacter(void *font, int character);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfont\fP 1i
Stroke font to use. 
.IP \fIcharacter\fP 1i
Character to render (not confined to 8 bits). 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Without using any display lists, glutStrokeCharacter renders the
character in the named stroke font. The available fonts are: 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_STROKE_ROMAN 
A proportionally spaced Roman Simplex font for ASCII characters
32 through 127. The maximum top character in the font is 119.05
units; the bottom descends 33.33 units. 
.TP 8
.B GLUT_STROKE_MONO_ROMAN 
A mono-spaced spaced Roman Simplex font (same characters as
GLUT_STROKE_ROMAN) for ASCII characters 32 through 127. The
maximum top character in the font is 119.05 units; the bottom
descends 33.33 units. Each character is 104.76 units wide. 
.LP
Rendering a nonexistent character has no effect. A glTranslatef is
used to translate the current model view matrix to advance the width of
the character. 
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is a routine that shows how to render a string of ASCII text
with glutStrokeCharacter:
.nf
.LP
  void 
  output(GLfloat x, GLfloat y, char *text)
  {
    char *p;

    glPushMatrix();
    glTranslatef(x, y, 0);
    for (p = text; *p; p++)
      glutStrokeCharacter(GLUT_STROKE_ROMAN, *p);
    glPopMatrix();
  }
.fi
.LP
If you want to draw stroke font text using wide, antialiased lines, use:
.nf
.LP
  glBlendFunc(GL_SRC_ALPHA, GL_ONE_MINUS_SRC_ALPHA);
  glEnable(GL_BLEND);
  glEnable(GL_LINE_SMOOTH);
  glLineWidth(2.0);
  output(200, 225, "This is antialiased.");
.fi
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
glutBitmapCharacter, glutStrokeWidth
.SH AUTHOR
Mark J. Kilgard (mjk@nvidia.com)
